<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Anabolic  and Catabolic  processes</title>
</head>
<body>
<p>
 At any moment of life anabolic as well as catabolic processes take place in the body.
 However they influence on the body oppositely, both processes are important, and they are serve as tool for problem solving.
</p>
<p>
 <strong>Anabolic processes </strong> (anabolism) represent formation of new structures and substances in the body, renewal and growth of tissues, including muscle one. Anabolic processes take place during rest and under impact of various substances which have anabolic activity:</p>
<ul>
 <li>Protein;</li>
 <li>Amino acids;</li>
 <li>Special preparations (anabolic steroids);</li>
 <li>Other remedies.</li>
</ul>
<p>
 <strong>Catabolic processes </strong> (catabolism) ) represent processes which are opposite to anabolic one: destruction of substances and structures, including muscle one. Catabolism is process of metabolic decomposition, breakdown into simpler substances (differentiation) or oxidation of a substance; the process usually takes place, excreting energy in form of warmth and ATP. Catabolic reactions are basis for dissimilation: loss of specificity for the body by complicated substances as a result of their decomposition to simpler substances. Catabolism is needed for urgent compensation of the body with needed substances. Catabolic processes lead to destruction of muscles: decomposition of protein (muscle) tissue into till the level of digestible amino acids. Catabolism may be caused by the following factors:</p>
<ul>
 <li>Stress;</li>
 <li>Fatigue;</li>
 <li>Physical loads;</li>
 <li>Hunger;</li>
 <li>Other factors.</li>
</ul>
</body>
</html>