<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Regulatory systems</title>
</head>
<body>
<p>Regulatory systems of the body represent permanently operating mechanism of management for all systems and organs, their interrelation and keeping of balance between the body and environment. Activity of regulatory systems depends upon functional state of the body. There are 3 levels of regulatory systems’ activity: </p>
 <ul>
<li>Level of control;</li>
<li>Level of control;</li>
<li>Level of control; </li>
</ul>
<p>When regulated system works in normal regime, not experiencing special loadings, regulatory mechanism carries out control functions; it means that it perceives information about state of regulated system and doesn’t intervene into its work. But if additional loads appear, if regulated system needs increase consumption of energy for carrying out its function, mechanism of regulation switches to another regime of work: it intervenes into process of management, and corrects it, helping regulated system to carry out its functions. In this case, signals of management which provide mobilization of needed additional functional reserves are sent through corresponding nervous and humoral canals to regulated system. But if own reserves of regulated system are insufficient for needed effect, mechanisms of regulation enters regime of management. Here their activity significantly rises, since it is needed to connect also other higher levels of regulation; it provides mobilization of functional reserves of other systems. Correspondingly to three levels of activity, tension of regulatory mechanisms (their activity) increases. </p>
 <p>Thus, considering level of regulatory mechanisms’ tension, it is possible to evaluate functional reserves of circulatory system and adaptive capacities of the whole body. Three systems of rhythm’s regulation are usually differentiated: </p>
<p><strong>Sympathetic part </strong> of vegetative nervous system  responses for mobilization of internal resources of the body; it’s mobilizing system of regulation.</p>
<p><strong>Parasympathetic part </strong> of vegetative nervous system responds for relaxation, rest, keeping and accumulation of vital energy; it’s inhibition regulatory system. </p>
<p><strong>Mechanism of humoral regulation</strong>  also participates in the process of regulation; it is carried out through liquid mediums of the body with the help of hormones. Humoral regulation of high-developed animals and humans submits to nervous regulation, and together with it, it composes a single system of neuro-humoral regulation. </p>

<p>Vegetative nervous system carries out fast processes of regulation, while humoral one carries out slower ones. Rhythm of cardiac contractions regulated through sympathetic and parasympathetic parts of vegetative nervous system reacts to any stressful impacts very much. </p>

</body>
</html>